---
layout: post
title: You Git
---

So, Git. Or rather, gitignore. A great idea, to keep all of your dirty laundry OUT of you public repositories... And all private things like database info (usernames, passwords etc)

If you are working on, say, node for the first time and you want to know, 'hey, what is a good thing to have in my gitignore?' then you can just head to [this fabulous github repo](https://github.com/github/gitignore) and look up 'node' in the files directory. Then you 'ctrl c, ctrl a' to grab the lot... 

Now gitignore does not go in your hidden .git folder, confusingly. In fact, initialising a git repo for your folder won't have made you a gitignore file so you need to create one and you put it into the ROOT of your project folder (not[^notnotnot] in the .git folder).

```
cd myprojectfolder
touch .gitignore
```

Notice that it is a file preceeded with a DOT. Which makes it hidden, so if you want to see it using the ls command from your terminal you need to use `ls -a`. 

Now, awesomely, if you paste that chunk of text you copied from the example .gitignore folder then you won't include any embarrasing no-nos next time you push it[^real-good].

It is becoming clear to me that I never finish a blog post - I have an idea for the start or a thing I want to record, but it is never completed... Hmmm... I think I need a way to add thoughts to blog posts (could do updates at the beginning of each, thus preserving the initial title and content in case it has been bookmarked? BUT then it won't come up on a feed that it has been updated? Need to investigate further.

---
[^notnotnot]: repeat NOT
[^real-good]: Ah. Push it. Real good.
